How can tools support the use of Data Science as an introductory context?
    Tools: CORGIS Libraries, Online portal, and BlockPy blocks
    Experiment: Create architecture and specific instances of the tools above, and then evaluate them based on the questions.
    Existing problems:
        CORGIS Library has too many divergent libraries, and its impossible to maintain
            Solution: A new generalized architecture that abstracts the data and metadata to a higher level
        There is still too high a barrier for instructors to transform a data source into a classroom ready tool
            Solution: An evolution of the RTW Online Building tool to make it even easier to transform a JSON/CSV data source into a Java/Python/Racket/BlockPy library
        Students have diverging computer hardware (i.e. some are fast, some are slow), so making the datasets have the right size is tricky
            Solution: Analyze the architectural suitability of different architectures (e.g., should datafiles be stored in memory or processed on disk) and how the software can adapt itself to a students' hardware
        Different datasets have wildly varying shapes, but it'd be ideal to have uniform, variable shapes
            Solution: Develop a system for manipulating datasets to have given shapes by restructuring the data according to certain templates
    Evaluation: All of the tools that are created will be tested for usability where applicable.

How does the Student-Driven Data Context impact students' motivation and engagement, especially compared to other components of the course?
    Student-Driven Data Context: The pedagogoical appraoch used throughout the course, where students are given freedom to choose a data source of value to them and use that for their final project.
    Experiment: Over the course of the semester, they'll be surveyed 2 times (pre-/post-) and interviewed individually about their experiences.        
    Motivation: self-reported, based on the MUSIC model (Empowerment, Usefulness, Success, Interest, Caring)
        Quantitative questions:
            Students will be surveyed with a 6-point Likert-scale instrument that makes statements about the motivational aspects and components of the course:
                Motivational Aspects: [ Empowering, Useful to career goals, helpful to your learning, interesting to you, valuable to your peers ]
                Course Components: [ Working with real-world data, Programming, Abstractions, Cohort work, Social Impacts ]
        Qualitative questions:
            Students will be interviewed about how they worked with their dataset
            Empowerment:
                What aspects of your dataset did you have control over? What did you feel limited by with your dataset? How did you decide to choose to your dataset? Did you want more or less scaffolding? How does this compare to other aspects of the course?
            Usefulness:
                What problems were you able to solve with your dataset? What couldn't you do with your dataset? How well does your dataset align to your career goals? How does this compare to other aspects of the course?
            Success:
                How did you get to know your dataset? What things still confuse you about your dataset? When you opened your dataset, did you know what to do? How does this compare to other aspects of the course?
            Interest:
                Was your dataset interesting? What was boring about your dataset? How does this compare to other aspects of the course?
            Caring:
                Do you feel that this dataset would be generally valued by your peers in your program? Do you feel that this dataset would be generally valued by your peers in this class? Do you feel that this dataset would be generally valued by the instructors? How does this compare to other aspects of the course?
    Engagement: 
        observed behavior: attendance, participation in class activities, course/project grades, completion of assignments and readings
        self-reported: intention to continue taking CS courses, desire for more/less of different course components (e.g., more maze, more programming, more real-world data)
    Expectation: 
        1) Students will attribute a large amount of motivation to the data sources
        2) Student's reported Usefulness, more than their Interest, is important in predicting engagement outcomes.
        3) We will see general increases in both Motivation and Engagement outcomes over the course of the semester.
