\section{Benefits of Instructional Design}

\subsection{Catered instruction}

In Usability Engineering, the users' needs and desires are given primacy, carefully considered before any code is written.
Instructional Design recommends analysis of the learners and environment befor 

\subsection{Fault localization}

A good instructor might be able to intuitively identify problem areas in a course.
Proper assessment measures learning gains rather than absolute knowledge, making it easier to evaluate the instructional materials.

\subsection{Assessment improvement}

Many instructors consider assessment as an afterthought, deployed at the end of the course to .
There are mathematical techniques such as Item Response Theory that can be used to increase the coverage and validity of the assessment instruments.

\subsection{Hard data for student progress}

Identifying the students that need extra attention is challenging, and proper assessment is key.

\subsection{Replication}
Few courses are built from scratch.
In most cases, course replication means using another instructor's slides.
There is no explanation of the decisions that went into development of these course materials, no strategy for how to use them in a greater course context, and no basis on how to modify them for a different group of learners.
Consider inheriting a codebase with no documentation or supplementary information. 

\subsection{Ellicited objectives}
Research has shown that merely identifying course objectives to students can measurably improve their performance on assessment.

\subsection{Model for instructional strategy}
Instructional Design provides a model instructional strategy with five key components.
Constituent in this model are opportunities for students to participate actively with materials and receive feedback.

\subsection{Compatability with other techniques}
As CS instructors grow professionally, they encounter new learning and teaching techniques to guide their decisions.
Instructional Design is a framework that is compatible with a range of popular theories, including constructivism, peer instruction, active learning, and many more.
At its heart, instructional design is an approach to developing lessons, but it only offers suggestions on where to go.

For instance, active learning is inherently suggested in the model instructional strategy; the Constructivist approach is a modification of that strategy where participation precedes content presentation.
Situated Learning Theory dictates authentic assessments where learners focus on performance of tasks rather than artificial completion of, for example, written questions; Instructional Design does not require any particular assessment tools, and would suggest simply ensuring a concrete rubric (of an appropriate open-endedness) exists for the assessment activity.

\subsection{Mechanisms for classifying knowledge}

Many instructors may be familiar with Bloom's Taxonomy, or perhaps Gagne's Learning Domains.
Carefully considering the form of the material helps motivate the pedagogy.

Cons
----

\subsection{Over-rigorous}

The Dick \& Carey model is a teaching model, used to train new instructional designers.
It is one of the most formal methods of instructional design, with rigorous amounts of structure and a strong sense of linearity.
Although the entire model is iterative, the purest execution is intended to be done in disjunct phases.
Each one of these individual phases demands extensive consideration and the elicitation of many details, some of which may feel repetitive or unnecessary for an instructor.
Identifying all the learning objectives in a course can lead to a staggering amount of previously implicit information.
A highly detailed skill analysis leads to many performance objectives and triple the number of assessment instruments.
Although this is benenficial in a spirit of optimizing the course materials, it can be detrimental to an instructional designer with time and energy constraints.

As budding instructional designers move through their zone of proximal development, they are expected to apply formal methods more strategically.
In practice, many designers rely on more stream-lined models, a mish-mash of their favorite models, or even to simply rely on their own intuitions.
This is similar to how Software Engineers develop intuitions about their development methods.

Some instructors may find that they work best by adopting principles or components of the instructional design model, rather than a whole-sale immersion.
We encourage trial runs and .

\subsection{Over-assessment}

Although Instructional Design does not demand a minimum amount of assessment, it is implicit that learners will be evaluated summatively.
This is not necessarily compatible with all learning scenarios.
Younger learners in K-12 contexts may not be sufficiently motivated to participate in activities that they know will be graded.
It is up to the instructor to make decisions
Some instructors may not feel it is appropriate to give pre-tests to students, if they feel that the leaners have no possibility of prior exposure and could be intimidated by such an assessment.

The nature of instructional design leads to tight, focused lessons where the materials and assessments are directly aligned.
Some may feel that the assessment materials are over-focused, leading to a "teach-to-the-test" mentality.
This may encourage negative performance-oriented behavior in learners
Even worse, exams carry emotional weight for students, and they mmay react badly if they feel test exhaustion.

\subsection{Over-structured}

Much like programming, there is an element of art to teaching.
Introducing rigor can have implications for implicit and variable aspects of a lesson.

that secondary implicit learning objectives may fall by the way-side.

Further, tightly focused lessons can limit students' perspective.
If the education is of a sufficient quality, they may believe that they are receiving the whole story.
Negative and limited learning experiences 

Finally, there are viable concerns about spoon-feeding 