Thank you for meeting with me during SIGCSE in Memphis to discuss the
status of the OpenDSA project. Our goal remains to develop course
materials for use in a range of CS courses, primarily focused on Data
Structures and Algorithms, but broadening to other topics such as
Programming Languages, Translators and Compilers, and Formal Languages
and Automata. We have made good progress both in developing content,
and in developing infrastructure to support delivery of the content.
We are currently supporting courses at about 5-10 institutions per
semester, and are looking to make the infrastructure more portable so
as to support a major scale-up in use of the materials.

Here are some pointers to information about OpenDSA:
* Our project homepage is at: http://algoviz.org/OpenDSA/
* Our GitHub project is at: https://github.com/OpenDSA. The main content
  repository is at: https://github.com/OpenDSA/OpenDSA
* You can see an example of an OpenDSA eTextbook instance at:
  http://algoviz.org/OpenDSA/Books/OpenDSA/

When we spoke at SIGCSE, you indicated that you saw a need to support
K12 teachers who are teaching CS-related courses.

The CS Department at Virginia Tech already has available a range of
relevant instructional materials (through OpenDSA). We have a
sustained interest and expertise in teaching both the CS Principles
course (we were in the second wave of proof-of-concept testers), and
courses on Computational Thinking for non-majors (Dennis Kafura is in
his third year of teaching this course). We have experience with
developing portal websites of instructional material. (Ed Fox was a
coPI for the NSF NSDL Portal for Computer Science, Ensemble. I was the
PI for the Algoviz Portal, that cataloged hundreds of Algorithm
Visualizations for instructors to use.)

Given our range of experience and existing body of materials and
infrastructure, we believe that we could successfully develop a
resource for use by K12 teachers. This might include Professional
Development and self-study materials, and it might also leverage
Ensemble to provide curated information about existing resources that
teachers could use in their classes (such as freely available systems
for teaching block-based languages or programming environments).

I would like to hear more about what you think the community needs,
and if what I suggested appears to be on the right track. Perhaps we
could work on a capacity building proposal or an Eagar proposal that
would let us work with our K12 contacts to flesh out what such a site
should contain.

